# Elevator Simulator

## SYSC 3303 Project

### Milestone 5 Group 1 L5

#### By: Omar Imran, Daniel Innes, Braxton Martin, Erica Oliver, Wintana Yosief

The Elevator system consists of four subsystems.

To import the project in Eclipse, unzip the archive file and then import project from file system.

To run in the Command Prompt, first you need to run the subsystems in this order: ElevatorSubsystem, Scheduler, 
FloorSubsystem then the GUI. 

The FloorSubsystem will parse the CSV file containing all the events. The relative time in the program will start at 14:
00:00 and will then call on events based on this time.

The Floors will send UDP requests to the Scheduler which will find the best elevator and send the request to it. In
this, the Floors are the Clients, Scheduler is the Host and the Elevators are the servers. The elevator will then move
to the destination floor of the event. This will keep happening until all the events in the CSV file have been passed.

There is also a GUI component which gets updated when significant events occur (events assigned to an elevator, elevator
stuck, doors stuck, etc.). Each subsystem is responsible for notifying the GUI through UDP whenever an event occurs 
within them. 

There are 8 tests included (i.e. CSVTest, CommunicationTest, StateTest,
ElevatorMotorTest, FloorsTest, StubsTest, FaultTest).

Once the scheduler thread starts, the timer will also start. Events will be scheduled based on their priorities (i.e.
their time) so that the first event to be called will be the earlier ones. The timings of the requests from the floor
will depend on the events.

There will be a delay as the elevator moves from one floor to another depending on the distance and the speed defined in
the ArrivalSensor. There will also be a delay when the doors open to when they close again to simulate the real world.

The Elevator has four states. When it is idle, it is waiting on requests to be made. When it is moving up, it is going
to all the floors located in the set containing destination floors that are on the way up. When it is moving down, it
will go to all the floors located in the set containing destination floors that are on the way down. When it is stuck, 
it cannot take any events. 

The Scheduler only has two states. One where it is actively scheduling events from the Floor to the Elevator. Another
will be when it has no events, so it is idle.

The elevator can experience a hard fault if it does not reach the floor in time which would cause it to shut down. The
elevator can experience a soft fault when the door refuses to open/close. The elevator will continue trying to
open/close the doors until it does.

## Submitted Files

* ElevatorSubsystem Package: has all the files containing the ElevatorSubSystem
    * ArrivalSensor.java: represents the ArrivalSensor used to check if there is a request on the floor
    * Door.java: represents the ElevatorDoor
    * Elevator.java: represents a single Elevator
    * ElevatorApi.java: interface implemented by Elevator.java
    * ElevatorButton.java: represents the buttons inside the elevators
    * ElevatorLamp.java: represents the lamps that turn on when an ElevatorButton is pressed
    * ElevatorSubsystem.java: generates all necessary elevators for the system
    * Motor.java: represents the motors that move the elevators

* FloorSubsystem Package: has all the files containing the FloorSubsystem
    * Floor.java: represents a floor in the building
    * BottomFloor.java: is a floor with only an up button
    * MiddleFloor.java: is a floor with both up and down buttons
    * TopFloor.java: is a floor with only a down button
    * FloorApi.java: interface implemented by Floor.java
    * FloorButton.java: represents the buttons on the floors to request elevators
    * FloorLamp.java: represents the lamps that turn on when a FloorButton is pressed
    * FloorSubsystem.java: generates all necessary floors for the system

* model Package:
    * AckMessage.java: Acknowledgment message to be used in stub as the return for void functions
    * Destination.java: contains information about the floor request
    * ElevatorState.java: is an ENUM that contains information about the states of the elevator
    * Event.java: represents the events generated by users in the form (date, currentFloor, direction, destinationFloor)
    * StubRequestMessage.java: Representation of a function call to be used in stub

* SchedulerSubsystem Package:
    * Scheduler.java: schedules the events
    * SchedulerApi.java: interface implemented by Scheduler.java

* stub Package:
    * ElevatorClient.java: Client Socket that creates information packets to be sent through the socket to the other clients
    * FloorClient.java: Client Socket that creates information packets to be sent through the socket to the other clients
    * GuiClient.java: Client Socket that creates information packets to be sent through the socket to the other clients
    * SchedulerClient.java: Client Socket that creates information packets to be sent through the socket to the other clients
    * StubClient.java: Abstract stub client for remote procedure calls
    * StubServer.java: Abstract stub server for remote procedure calls

* helloWorldStub Package:
    * HelloWorld.java: a simple hello world class used for testing the stubs
    * HelloWorldApi.java: interface implemented by HelloWorld.java
    * HelloWorldClient.java: an example implementation of StubClient used for testing
    * HelloWorldServer.java: an example implementation of StubServer used for testing

* tests:
    * CommunicationTest.java: Testing the communication between systems
    * CSVTest.java: Testing the reading of the input csv file
    * ElevatorMotorTest.java: Testing the initialization of the motor
    * FaultTest.java: Testing the floor and door faults
    * FloorsTest.java: Testing the floors generation
    * StateTest.java: Testing the states
    * StubTest.java: Testing the stubs and remote procedure calls
    * MultipleElevatorsTest.java: Testing the use of multiple elevators

* util: 
    * Config.java: The configuration file loader. Loads the properties from a given CONFIG_FILE_NAME
    * TestConfig.java: The default constructor to load the configuration file for the tests
    
* Gui Package: 
    * BufferedGUI.java: Keeps a queue of calls to the GUI
    * ElevatorPanel.java: Contains an elevator's info consisting of elevator number, current floor number, State, 
    destinations queue, doors stuck status. Each elevatorPanel represents one elevator in the system
    * FloorPanel.java: FloorPanel contains the status of the floor buttons for each floor. The up/down text fields 
    should become visible when the corresponding floor button is activated. There is one floorPanel for each floor in 
    the system corresponding to the up/down floorButtons
    * GUI.java: The GUI representation for the system comprised of one panel for each of the ElevatorSubsystem, 
    the FloorSubsystem, and the SchedulerSubsystem
    * GuiApi.java: API for the GUI
    * SchedulerPanel.java: Contains the list of events kept in the scheduler yet to be allocated to an elevator

* test.csv: the input file that simulates the events
* config.cfg: the configuration file which holds the number of floors and elevators, the elevator velocity, etc.
* Main.java: Main class that runs all four main functions
